Add docs for dbt-greenplum adapter (#1518)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/reference/resource-configs/greenplum-configs.md

---
title: "Greenplum configurations"
id: "greenplum-configs"
---

## Performance Optimizations
    

> Table in greenplum have a few powerful optimizations to improve query perfomance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tables in Greenplum have powerful optimization configurations to improve query performance:
```

 
 - distribution
 - column orientation
 - compression

>  - appendonly toggle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - `appendonly` toggle
```

>  - distribution
>  - column orientation
>  - compression
>  - appendonly toggle
>  - partitions

Reviewer: you might be able to make these bullet points link to the sections below with 
```suggestion
 - [distribution](### Distribution)
 - [column orientation](### Column orientation)
 - [compression](###Compression)
 - appendonly toggle
 - partitions
```

> Supplying these values as model-level configurations apply the corresponding settings in the generated `CREATE TABLE`(except partitions). Note that these settings will have no effect for models set to `view`.

Reviewer: perhaps you could throw an error message if these configs are set for a view model?

Reviewer: also, why does `partitions` not apply to a `CREATE TABLE` statement?

Author: yes, my bad, I mean `create table ... as select ...`

Author: "perhaps you could throw an error message if these configs are set for a view model?" I created an [issue](https://github.com/markporoshin/dbt-greenplum/issues/9).

### Distribution

> In greenplum you have opportunity to choose [distribution key](https://gpdb.docs.pivotal.io/6-4/admin_guide/distribution.html), that will be used to sort data by segments. Join-s by this key will be more effective. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Greenplum, you can choose a [distribution key](https://gpdb.docs.pivotal.io/6-4/admin_guide/distribution.html), that will be used to sort data by segments. Joining on the partition will become more performant after specifying distribution.
```

> By default dbt-greenplum distribute data `RANDOMLY`. To implement distribution key you need to specify `distributed_by` parameter in model config:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default dbt-greenplum distributes data `RANDOMLY`. To implement a distribution key you need to specify the `distributed_by` parameter in model's config:
```

```sql
{{
    config(
        ...
        distributed_by='<field_name>'
        ...
    )
}}

select ...
```

> Also you can choose `DISTRIBUTED REPLICATED` option:

Reviewer: what does this do? replicates all the rows to every node?

Author: "DISTRIBUTED REPLICATED replicates all rows in the table to all Greenplum Database segments." from [documentation](https://gpdb.docs.pivotal.io/6-9/ref_guide/sql_commands/CREATE_TABLE_AS.html)
So you are right
